# Safe-Than-Sorry-Safety-Quiz-and-Scenarios

This program is a safety training quiz that tests users' knowledge about cybersecurity, hand-washing skills, suicide prevention, and CPR topics.

CONTENT WARNING: This project code includes sensitive topics related to suicide and mental health. If you are struggling or sensitive to these issues, please take necessary precautions and care for yourself. Consider seeking support from a friend, family, or professional. Need something more confidential? Please consider the Suicide & Crisis Lifeline. 

### SAFE THAN SORRY ###
This project is a basic safety quiz called “Safe Than Sorry” that covers cybersecurity, hand-washing skills, suicide prevention, and CPR topics through simple questions and thoughtful scenarios. The title of this program is based on the saying, “better safe than sorry”, which encompasses a cautious way of thinking that prioritizes safe practices and caution. This program can be used in any workplace as a training test module to be completed by staff members or for extracurricular activities.
Cybersecurity, hand-washing skills, and suicide prevention are all vital aspects of public and personal safety that communities can benefit from refreshing and testing their knowledge on. It is important to note that the CPR section includes adults, children, infants, and pets, which helps extend this program's usage to regular workplaces, healthcare, and veterinary use. The cybersecurity section will highlight suspicious signs to be aware of and different plans of action for suspicious emails and contacts. The hand washing will focus on techniques and washing etiquette to stop the spread of germs and sicknesses. Lastly, the suicide prevention options will touch on different types of helpful responses to scenarios.
The user of this program will complete a total of 40 questions worth 10 points each that are divided into four separate 10-question quizzes. The user will get a report at the end of the training when every question and module is entered and completed. 

### Process ###
The system will begin this training by getting input on the user’s name or a recognizable nickname. I specified the nickname to be recognizable to emphasize the usage of the program for casual workplace training modules, as the report at the end is something that an employee could screenshot and send to their manager as proof of completion with a passing grade. Next, the system will list out the module names and allow the user to choose the first module they want to complete. This allows for some personalization of the training process as once they finish the module, they can choose the next module and so on so forth instead of going in the program order. Next, the system will display the list of four modules, allowing the user to choose which one they would like to complete first. This adds more flexibility and personalization to the training, letting users choose the order that works best for them, rather than going down the list. From there, the user answers each multiple-choice question in the module they chose, getting instant feedback and an updated points score after each one. They go through this process until the last question of the final module. Lastly, the user gets a “Proof of Completion Report” that displays their name and percentage score. The score is based on the points they earned out of a possible 400 points. 

As long as the user follows prompt instructions, the program works smoothly. If not, the issue with this code is that when the user is prompted to enter a module number from the list, the program stops if they enter an empty string, an out-of-range number, or a letter. I was unable to successfully implement a loop that would restart the function and prompt the user again in the case of these invalid inputs, as originally imagined.



- This is sampled from “Anatomy-Game” on ksu-hmi GitHub, which tests knowledge for different anatomy systems (Sykes, 2019). 
- Sykes, R. (2019). Anatomy-Game. GitHub. https://github.com/ksu-hmi/Anatomy-Game
